---
layout: default
---

{:.page-heading}
# Welcome to gren's guide

Following you can find all the guides to use **gren** in the best way.

## Installation

Install `github-release-notes` via npm:

```shell
npm install github-release-notes -g
```

### Setup

First, generate a `GitHub token`, _with **repo** scope_, at [this link](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/).
Then add this line to  `~/.bash_profile` (or `~/.zshrc`):

```shell
export GREN_GITHUB_TOKEN=your_token_here
```

## Basic Usage

`gren` gets the repo information directly from the folder where `git` is initialised.

```shell
# Navigate to your project directory
cd ~/Path/to/repo
# Run the task (see below)
gren release
```

Otherwise, you can run it _anywhere_ passing the repo information:

```shell
gren release --username=[username] --repo=[repo name]
```

If you don't want to save the token, you can specify one as an option:

```shell
gren release --token=[your token]
```

### Commands

There are two main commands that can be ran with 🤖:

#### `gren release`

`gren` will look for the latest tag, draft a new release using the issues closed between when that tag and the one before were created and publish that release in your **release** panel in your GitHub repo. ([@see how to feed 🤖](#feed-gren-)).

#### `gren changelog`

Create a `CHANGELOG.md` file using all the release notes of the repo _(like the ones generated by_ 🤖 _)._
If the file exists already, use the `--override` option to proceed.

```shell
gren changelog --override
```

To generate a brand new release notes, using the same approach as per the releases, you have to run the command with the `--generate` option.

```shell
gren changelog --generate
```

### Help! 🆘

`gren` is using [Commander.js](https://github.com/tj/commander.js) which generates the `--help` section.
To trigger the help of a command, run:

```shell
# General usage
gren --help
# Command usage
gren help release # or gren release --help
```

## Configuration file

You can create a configuration file where the task will be ran, where to specify your options. [See how to set up the config file](https://github-tools.github.io/github-release-notes/options.html#configuration-file)
The accepted file extensions are the following:

- `.grenrc`
- `.grenrc.json`
- `.grenrc.yml`
- `.grenrc.yaml`
- `.grenrc.js`

[See few examples here]({{ "examples" | relative_url }}){:.page-heading}
